Hi and welcome to this video on complex numbers.
Now if you're not interested in complex numbers and don't plan on using them by all means go ahead and
skip the video.
But if you are here we go.
Let's take a look at so complex numbers are implemented in Python using the building complex class.
So it's a class.
And so it has a constructor.
So the constructor takes two parameters x and y and x has the real power.
And why is the Magin result.
So basically we're working in rectangular coordinates.
Now of course you can also have complex literals and the literals are simply written this way X plus
why J where x and y are the two numbers and thus J.
Here just represents that.
That is the imaginary part and Jake and the uppercase J.
All lowercase J.
Both will work just fine.
So this is some examples we can take a equals complex one comma to and b equals one plus two J.
Those should be the same numbers right.
They're the same complex numbers.
And in fact when we do a equals equals B we get true.
But there's a little bit of a caveat to all this x and y.
The real and imaginary thoughts are actually floats right.
And actually even in this case where we specified X and Y to be integers 1 and 2.
If you look at the type of them once they've been created into a complex number that floats it will
see that in the code.
So of course being floats you've got to be careful with the equality testing right.
We have the same issues here that we have with regular folks and we'll see that in code and we'll come
back and touch on that later towards the end of the video.
So we do have some instance properties and methods.
So we have the real instance property which returns the real path of the complex numbers.
We have the duck.
I am a G-4 imaginary which returns the imaginary part of the numbers and we also have a method conjugate
which returns the complex conjugate of that particular number.
So this is an example if we take d equals to minus three J then did of real will return to deedle imaginary
will return negative 3.
And in fact those will be Sloth's right.
So I will see that in the code but just keep that in mind and indeed conjugate will return the complex
conjugate so it will return to plus reject.
The arithmetic operators like plus minus.
Division multiplication and as well as powers work.
Just as expected with complex numbers.
So they worked just fine the polymorphic they recognize when they were working with complex numbers.
So you can add multiply and do all those things with complex numbers without any problems.
Here are some examples.
You can also mix real and complex numbers so if you want to add a complex number to a real number that's
fine.
Obviously you know in real life and real mathematics that works just fine here as well.
That is supported as well as multiplication and the other ones as well.
So nothing fancy here.
They work as expected with complex numbers that just use complex arithmetic.
Now the Divine not operators are not supported.
Right so if you try and do a div an operation on complex numbers you will get an exception.
Now other operations.
Let's talk about the equals equals and not equals.
So they all support it.
But again we have the same problem as with floats right.
Complex numbers are stored as follows.
Which means that that equals equals is going to raise problems because we're not going to have exact
representations of the numbers that we put in.
As may be you know as finite decimal representations I will run into the same problems we have with
the floats.
Now the comparison operators such as less than greater than again also not supported.
Right.
I mean what does it mean for a complex number to be greater than another one.
Well you know it might depend on your definition it might depend on what you know you decide to be that
ordering of complex numbers.
So in general the non-supported you have to create your own basically now functions of the math module
will not work.
You can't use any of the functions in the math module with complex numbers.
Instead you should use the C math module which which is the basically the complex equivalent to the
math module and has most of the same functions and that plus some extra ones that are more specific
to complex numbers.
So you have exponentials you have logs you have trigs and involves trigs you have hyperbolic inverse
hyperbolic.
You have polar and rectangular conversions.
That's an example of some of the functions that are in the math module that are not in the math on you
and you have also the coast method which is also in the math module.
And this one is you know we'll walk with complex numbers but it does the same thing.
So if you need a refresher on the East Coast method of floats you can go back to one of the videos on
floats where we discussed in some detail but it works the same way.
All right.
So first let's take a look at a rectangular topos.
So just a quick recap reminder of the end of the notation as well.
So we have the real and imaginary axis we've got this complex number hit X and you know rectangular
coordinates.
And it also has polar coordinates right.
This angle by and on.
So we called the C math library.
Then we can use the phase function which will return fire.
Right.
It will return the phase of the argument of the complex number x 5 will be between negative PI and pi.
And it's measured clockwise from the real axis on
this way.
So you go from you will go from negative PI to pi.
Try to measure it clockwise from the real axis if it's down here then you're going to be measuring clockwise
from the real axis which means you'll get a negative number and that's why you get negative PI to 5.
But that's pretty standard that's how it's done usually for complex numbers.
Now the value can be obtained by using the absolute value function so we can use ABS of X and that will
return the magnitude essentially of this vector if we think of this as a vector.
And it's just that you could in distance it's going to be tough.
So it returns the magnitude.
So for example a equals negative 1 plus zero g.
Then we can say see after that phase of 8 which will return PI and our will be warm right.
Negative one position J is sitting Here's some way.
At a distance of one from the origin.
So the angle is pi which is what we get and would be one on the other hand if we take a equals negative
one J.
While it's sitting down here.
Right.
So we get an angle of negative PI over 2 and we get an hour of one as well.
And then if we take X to be one plus one J.
So sitting out here at an angle of 45 with coordinates 1 and 1 basically on this on this chart then
our angle is PI over 4 right 45 degrees and the absolute value of a the this Euclidean distance is quite
good too.
But of course we'll get 1.4 one for we won't get an exact representation.
Since square root of 2 is irrational.
All right.
And then we have the reverse.
We can go from Poland rectangles.
So again we use the math library the math model and we can use the recked function which takes the hour
and phi the polar coordinates of the complex numbers.
Right.
And that will then return a complex number which will be in rectangular coordinates so for example if
we take what we had in the last slide right where we take on to be the square root of 2 and 5 to be
PI over full.
Right.
And you'll notice here that I used math stockpile before and math.
That's quite true.
I'm not taking the complex square root of 2 I'm just taking the real.
So I'm using the math model and with Pi.
It doesn't matter I could have used C math taught by all math of Pi.
It's the same number right.
And we'll see that in the code where I'll mix sometimes the PI.
Right.
But this one you got to be careful you can't use seam after squirt of two because seam after each quarter
of two will actually return to zero.
It will return a complex data type and this recked he expects a non-complex data type in the first round
in the first argument.
So be careful.
So that should return one plus one J.
And it does right.
But again we're using floats.
You know we have irrational numbers.
You know we have the irrational transcendental number here.
So it's not going to be exact.
Right and even with finite representable decimal numbers you might not get a finite representable by
an refloat like 0.1 as we've seen before.
So lastly let's take a look at Euler's Identity.
One of my favorite equations not just in complex analysis but in math in general I just think it's an
awesome equation.
Let's test it out.
Let's make sure that we actually get that in our code.
So we would do it this way right.
We would do the math that XP which is the exponentiation function in the C math model and we're going
to take I-Spy.
So we need to take pi times.
So we're going to do it this way we're going to take C math Popeye.
I could have used math.
PI doesn't matter.
Times 1 j.
Right.
Which is basically 0 1 j so we multiply pi times pi.
You know when you think of as the imaginary That's kind of the more typical notation.
And then plus 1 and that should give us zero.
But it doesn't.
So it kind of spoils the effect.
Right.
So there's these floats you kind of spoil the effect.
Plus the fact that you don't have to represent Pi.
We have to do it using a finite representation.
And so we end up with something that's close to zero but not exactly zero.
So the next best thing we could do is to use the as close method and it works the same way as with floats.
So when I say see Matthan is close so after SPC mapped out pi.
This is the same expression we had up here and we're going to test to see if it's close to zero.
And we are going to specify an absolute tolerance.
We have to write because we're testing numbers that are very close to zero.
This one is close to zero and this one is actually equal to zero.
So in this case the relative tolerance is not going to work.
And again if you need a refresher on that you can go back to the video on floats where we discussed
the method they had some of the caveats that you have to watch out for.
So we have to specify an absolute tolerance and then when we do that we get that this result is true.
So indeed we find that you know IPASS five plus one is equal to zero.
Right.
It's close enough to zero to be considered true.
Now again as I just mentioned if you don't specify the absolute tolerance of it just run the method
this way and settle for the default tolerance which is a relative tolerance and an absolute tolerance
of zero.
Then you will get that this is false right.
So be careful when you do.
You should really specify the absolute tolerance just as with floats.
All right so now we can switch to some code and take a look at all of that.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.